In this video we're going to make some
configuration changes to Android studio
and also install a few extra options
that are useful, so you want to start by
launching Android studio and once it's
started you want to come down here and
click on the configure menu at the
bottom of the welcome screen. Now we have
to launch something called the SDK
manager. Now this is where you find the
various components of Android studio to
choose this top option SDK manager and
then when it starts to I will quickly
download a list of the latest updates
you can see it here doing that so I'll
give that a moment to complete. Now the
good news is that this Windows resizable
even though the icons don't show on
Windows, so you can resize it instead of
looking at the various packages in a
small list box, so I'm going to expand
this a little bit and then sighs it up
so that they can be easily seen in the
video. Okay so at the top of the window
you can see your path to the SDK up here
the software development kit.
Now the SDK is all the classes that make
up Android as well as things like the
emulators and a few other tools now one
problem you can get is if you've
installed your SDK in a location that
contains spaces in its path.
Now this can happen on Windows in
particular Windows allows spaces in user
names so your home directory could end
up being something like C colon
backslash users backslash Tim space
Buchalka. Now it's not a good idea to use
spaces in the name of objects including
directories and user names but two
windows does allow it. Now if there is a
space somewhere in your SDK path then
you won't actually be able to make any
changes on the screen, everything will be
disabled.N ow this doesn't just affect
Android studio you'll also get problems
with other programs if your home
directory contains a space so to proceed
in that event you'll need to move your
SDK folder to a different location so
that there's no spaces in its path now
use your operating systems File Manager
program to copy the SDK directory to
another location in that scenario so on
Windows and remember that this is
generally only a problem on Windows
systems you could just copy the Android
directory to backslash users backslash
public now you'll have full permission
to public so there'd be no problems moving
there but you can put it anywhere that
you have permission to write to just
make sure that there are no spaces in
the path. Alright so this is the
Android SDK manager and from here we can
install some additional features and we
can also update some components if
updates are available now on this say
SDK platforms tab, you can see the
versions of Android that have been
released for API 27 all the way to API level 7
which was Android 2.1.
Now there's really no need to install
most of the previous Android versions
and I certainly don't suggest you try to
install all of them the latest Android
SDK platform does actually allow you to
create apps that will run or that will
run on earlier versions of Android so
you don't need the other versions to
create your apps. Now the other thing to
be aware of is that your SDK directory
can get very big if you install a lot of
options, 4 gigabytes is very easy
to get to and that's without everything
installed, so if you want a bit mad here
you could use up an awful amount of disk
space, however if you want to preview
layouts in earlier Android versions then
you'll need to install the Android SDK
platform option for that version.
Now that probably won't make much sense at
the moment but we'll do later in the
course now there's quite a few options
here on the screen but it looks far
worse than it is the various components
are pretty much the same for every
Android version, so that we can
concentrate on the two latest versions
at the top Android 8 Oreo then Android
API 27. Now it's always worth checking
the one version before the latest
because sometimes Google don't make
everything available in the latest
version right away it can be a delay.
Now one example of this is the sources for
android 26 as you can see here now
Google released API 27-point after
version 8 and didn't make the sources
available right away and as at the time
I'm recording this there's no sources
for Android 27 available, so if you spot
something in the previous version that's
not available in the latest one
then install the earlier version of that
component now what we're going to do is
we're going to install the Android API
27, now depending on your installation
you might find that's already been
installed and in my case you can see
here that Android SDK platform 27 has
been installed but we're also going to
choose these two options here Google API
is until x86 atom system image and the
Google Play version of that as well so
basically you want to make sure that
those three options are ticked now we
don't want the Android TV system image
because we're not going to cover
developing for TVs in this course. Now if
you unticked something it'll be uninstalled.
Now once you've been using Android
studio for a while and you've received a
number of updates you may want to remove
older versions of some components to do
that you just untick the box next to the
component and then click the apply
button now we don't want to remove
anything at this stage so make sure you
don't take anything that's already
installed I mean it's not the other the
world if you do that you can just come
back to the screen later and install it
again if you do that so at the moment
we're also going to need the Android SDK
platform 26 we need to make sure that's
checked as well, so I'm going to click on
this option here and I'm going to
mention that again briefly in a moment.
Now if you've ticked anything that
wasn't already installed you can click
apply to install it and you can then
then confirm the installation and the
components will be downloaded and
installed, so what I'll do is I'll stop
that process now click on ok, there's a
short update I'll short delay while
Google's updating we've got this screen
here now we can click on accept and
select the separate option down here
accept click on next a Google now is
downloading the components here so I'm
just going to move this over to one side
so that we can still talk while that's
actually happening now the next option
that are we going to want to install
will be the sources for Android API 27.
Now that's the source code for Android
and it's very useful when you're using
the various components in your code now
you can go in and have a look at the
code from our drawing and get ideas on
how it all works
but unfortunately as you can see in this
option here there's no sources option for
Android 27 at this point in time that's
because the Google haven't released them
yet so we can see the api's 26 sources
out of the Android oreo heading this one
shall hear so what's this installation
is finished on the right-hand side we're
going to have to go ahead and try and
install that and incidentally in case
you're wondering the Android SDK
platform that we've selected that's
basically Android and we definitely need
that and as I said you really only need
to install the latest version but we're
actually installing the other version as well.
Alright so on that once that other
installation is completed we're gonna
come back here and install sources for
Android 26 because Android studio will
only attempt to jump into the latest
version of the source code which means
it's going to look for the API 27
sources when you have APR 27 as your
compile SDK version and we'll talk more
about that in future videos but I'm
going to install the API 26 sources because Android
studio is currently setting API 26 as the target
version even though API 27 is available,
a load of phones for testing on. Now we
don't need to install all of them though
the first few of developing four TVs in
Android wear, watches in the like I'm
talking about so this one here Android
wear Intel an Android TV Intel and they
may well become available for API 27 in
the future, as well but we won't be
covering TV and we're in this course so
consequently there's no need to install
those emulators but we do want to
install both of the Google Intel x86
atom system images so I'm going to
select the Google API s Intel x86 and
the google play until x86 from the
Android 8 SDK you're going to be talking
more about these a bit later the reason
that there's no two different system
images is that Google have included
access to the Google Play Store on the
Google Play images and what that means
is that you can install apps from the
Play Store on the emulator you couldn't
do that in previous versions of Android
studio or Android. Now there is a
downside though and the Google Play
image restricts access just like a
physical Android device, so there are a
few things you can't do with the Google
Play images and that's why we also need
the Google API image as well now we will
be looking at that later in the course
when we have a look at the Android file
system. Alright so let's quickly
download the sources for Android 26,
I'm gonna click apply click ok
so what I'm going to do is while that
down is downloading I'm going to finish
the video here and we'll continue on
with a configuration of Android studio
in that video.